# Bonus Chapter: The History of uWSGI


## Origins and Motivation

The uWSGI project was initiated by Roberto De Ioris in 2008. The "u" in uWSGI originally stood for "Unbit," the name of De Ioris's company, and "WSGI" stands for Web Server Gateway Interface, a Python standard for web server and application communication. The project's inception was motivated by the need for a more efficient and flexible way to deploy Python web applications. At the time, deployment options were limited and often involved using mod_python with Apache or deploying applications via CGI, both of which had performance and configurability limitations.

As De Ioris recalled in [a 2014 interview](https://baroquesoftware.com/blog#interview-with-roberto_de_ioris):

> Unbit was born in 2005 as a hosting provider for developers in Italy. We were the first (in Italy) to support "bleeding edge" technologies like Ruby On Rails and Django. In 2008 we started releasing lot of the source code we wrote in the first 3 years of the company. In 2009 we started working on the uWSGI project to have a single codebase for hosting various customers applications. Since then the project evolved a lot and now all of our infrastructure is based on it. Currently our main business has moved from hosting to consulting for companies that want to enter the hosting/PaaS market or for web-based agencies with scalability and availability problems.

>  I have to say that it is a very particular project; the hosting market is pretty "frustrating" from various point of view. We decided to invest in an application server, after 4 years of infinite problems reported by our customers with various app servers that were available at that time. Most of those problems were related to bad practices, but I can assure you that telling a developer his code sucks is not easy, especially when he pays you :) so the initial spirit of uWSGI was "bypassing" bad practices, and constantly monitoring the app to spot problems and so on. It may look like a winning approach, but unfortunately a bad app is a bad app, there is nothing you can do to avoid it, so we decided to change direction and tried to implement a common solution for various hosting needs. In a couple of years we were able to support different languages and technologies on top of the same code. In addition to this our main (almost secret) objective was reducing resource usage of the application servers, which directly translates to being able to host more customers on the same server. This resulted in a product with really good performance and really low resource usage combined with an incredible number of features (most of them targeted at sysadmins), which allowed us to move our business into other areas. Companies like booking.com (perl) now uses it, as well as other companies in the hosting market (like PythonAnywhere).
